at the end of the last video we actually had some problems with our code we had the
application crashing when we Press New
so to confirm we will just run this click on file
new and we actually got an error before the dialog box came up so
that we need to fix but also I just want
to take the time to fix this up notice
this unused imports if you are in this situation where
you want those clean-up for you automatically
going to preferences or settings and search for import and auto import is the one we
want and you can click on optimizing
imports on the fly and add an ambiguous
imports on the fly and that will
clean up some of these things for us
automatically click on OK now anytime we do an import you should find that
this are cleaned up so if we go back and delete something notice how that is clean
up automatically so the next time it
looked at the code it's cleaned up so
just can be a good way to add imports for
you automatically and the other thing
was the an unambiguous imports is only one
import that matches that criteria its
going to automatically add it without asking and that saves you a bit of time when your typing but if
there's more than one it will still
ask you to choose which import
you want so that's number one but number two is
that error we are getting will the error
we are getting is because i wasn't really paying attention 2 things firstly before I come back here and talk about the dialogue
controller if you look at the to do item
dialogue this is really a red flag here the
fact and its actually saying cannot set
JavaFX scene control.txt field from field
short description field and if you look in our dialogue controller we can see we got this import
java.awt.* which is
everything in that package and that's a
completely different GUI we shouldn't be having that
import their at all so I wasn't paying attention
when I added it so delete that and
notice now its gonna come up and ask the
imports again just delete that line and
import so you can see two text field theirs text fields java.awt and text field.javafx so I wasn't paying attention and I selected the wrong one so choose the
JavaFX one and likewise for the text
area do the same thing once we do that
we got now the right fields and if we go back to our
to do item dialogue those errors
then disappear as well so just something there if
you are getting a similar problem and you can't get it to work
that's most likely what it is so now if we try and run it click on file new we
get our dialogue box coming up again and let's try
typing something in so I'm gonna do something
as a short description....
....and the deadline lets select a date two days into the future
so I'm recording this on may 9 so set it to may 11
click on ok you can see ok was pressed down the left-hand
corner in the console output and our application hasn't
crash which is a good thing what hasn't happen here in the left hand side
the toolbar item doesn't appear in the list
view but if you close the application down and run it
again we notice that the item does
appear so click on my new to do item
may 11 which is correct and this is
a new to do item so it was saved but the
item wasn't updated and shown in the list
view so in other words our list view doesn't
automatically update at least not yet
now there is a way to have the list
automatically update which will cover
later but for now what we gonna do is
we need to explicitly add the item to the list
view and we have to do this in our main
window controller so going to do it after
calling the process results method so lets
go and do that we close down the program and
back to controller and close the run window
after the controller.process results
what we want to do is we do it their so
reset the list view data by setting this data to the updated list and that is going to
be the quickest way to get this to work for now
so we type in...
...so its basically replace the contents with
whatever is coming back from our data the singleton the list of all our to do
items so now if we run it we should find that
it will actually work so we got our items
in their but if we click and add a new on....
likewise for the date it doesn't matter I'll
just make it friday the 13th click on ok
now notice it was updated you can see tim's item did appear in the
left hand side of
the interface and that's a good thing so
that's been updated but notice how it wasn't
selected and we really should select the new item and probably what the
user would expect to happen after you
save an item
that item should be appearing on the screen and it
should be selected so in order for us to
select a new item in the list view we need to
know about it in the main window's
controller now we could get the items from the
to do data class and select the last one
on the list but it's really safer to
have the process data method return
the item that it created then we'll know
for sure that we are selecting the new item
so lets update the process data method so it does what we want close this down
go to our dialogue controller process
result you can see its currently a void
so its not returning anything let's change that and change it to return a to do item....
....
...so we got our item in a separate line now on the next line to
do...
..ok so that's now returning the item
that was created and added to our
singleton instance you can see they're
on line 32
go back to our controller so we got the code in here that is doing a set all for
the items we can use the get selection
model.select to select the new items
so....
....
...
....so we are updating the value
that's or storing the values that is returned from the
process results method and ultimately we
were using the Get selection model.select for that particular item that was
added to our list view so now we are goinig to run it and try and add another item
noting that our new items is also there so let's
add another one new.....
...and you can see what happened their it was added an
instantly selected on the screen so that is great so its now working so we are making
progress but one thing if you click on new again we notice that the dialogue hasn't got a title
the title bar itself is empty so let's add a title for it as well
cancel out of that and close it down we can actually add title right at the top where
we are initializing up here on
line 55 below that we can type...
....
...and run that to make sure that it works we've now got add new todo item as our title so
we set the dialogue panes header text and just canceling out of that closing this down
and looking at our to do the header text
here in the FXML so that is the dialogue pane
header text but we can also set the dialogues header text so what's the difference
between the two well let's set the
dialogues header text in addition to see
what this looks like so we need to do
that in code as oppose to putting that
in the XML so come back to controller and
just below the set title lets put....
....
...so now lets run that to see the difference
....and notice where that descriptions or
that text appeared so the dialogues header text is
separated from the dialogue content and is in a larger font
and our dialogue header text is a much smaller fonts so we got two
options here and when we want to present
information or instructions or other
information to the user so
I'm going to finish the video here now in the next
video what we are gonna do is go ahead and start
looking at changing the way we populate
the list view because the way that would
be doing it so far isn't really
recommended but you know it does work
but it's not the way we want to do it in a real world application so lets look at doing that in the next
video